---
title: Iptables
date: 2017-09-11
modify_date: 2023-08-31
tags: Linux Iptables Firewall
key: Iptables-2017-09-11
---

## Have a try

查看 `nat` 表中所有链上的规则

```sh
iptables -t nat -L
```

The following parameters make up a rule specification (as used in the add, delete, insert, replace and append commands). 

- `-p, --protocol` [!] _protocol_ 
  Protocol can be one of _tcp_, _udp_, _icmp_, or _all_. A protocol name from `/etc/protocols` is also allowed. A "!" argument before the protocol inverts the test. The number zero is equivalent to _all_. Protocol _all_ will match with all protocols and is taken as default when this option is omitted.

- `-j, --jump` _target_ 
  The target can be a user-defined chain (other than the one this rule is in), one of the special builtin targets which decide the fate of the packet immediately, or an extension.

- `-i, --in-interface` [!] _name_
  Name of an interface via which a packet was received (only for packets entering the **INPUT**, **FORWARD** and **PREROUTING** chains). When the "!" argument is used before the interface name, the sense is inverted. If the interface name ends in a "+", then any interface which begins with this name will match. If this option is omitted, any interface name will match. 

- `-o, --out-interface` [!] _name_
  Name of an interface via which a packet is going to be sent (for packets entering the **FORWARD**, **OUTPUT** and **POSTROUTING** chains). When the "!" argument is used before the interface name, the sense is inverted. If the interface name ends in a "+", then any interface which begins with this name will match. If this option is omitted, any interface name will match. 

<!--more-->

## Network Address Translation (NAT)

**SNAT** 用于将出站封包内的源地址修改为路由器地址

```sh
# --to is a short format of --to-source
iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j SANT --to-source 192.168.1.1
```

**DNAT** 用于将到达指定端口的入站封包内的目的地址修改为内网主机地址和端口。

```sh
iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination 192.168.1.10:8080
```