---
title: IPv4 网络
date: 2019-07-19
tags: Network
key: 2019-07-19-IPv4
---

## IPv4 Addressing

### IP address

| 128 | 64  | 32  | 16  | 8   | 4   | 2   | 1   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0   | 0   | 0   | 0   | 0   | 0   | 0   | 0   |

### NetworkIDs and Subnet Masks

`255.255.255.0` or `/24` is not a IP address, it just tells you how many binary number of a network id should have.

### IPv4 Classes

• IP classes provide a default mask based on the number in the first octet.

| Class    | $1^{st}$ Octet range  | Default Mask  |
| -------- | --------------------- | ------------- |
| Class A  | 1 - 126               | 255.0.0.0     |
| Class B  | 128  - 191            | 255.255.0.0   |
| Class C  | 192 - 223             | 255.255.255.0 |
| Loopback | 127                   |               |
| Class D  | 224  - 239            | Multicasting  |
| Class E  | 240 - 255.255.255.254 | Experimental  |

## VLAN

- Multiple networks/LANs on the same physical network switch.

- Traffic is logically separated between VLANs.

- VLANs provide logical segmentation of networks.

## F5 Local Traffic Manager (LTM)

### Virtual Server

A ***virtual server*** is one of the most important components of any BIG-IP Local Traffic Manager configuration. When you configure a virtual server, you create two Local Traffic Manager (LTM) objects: a ***virtual server*** and a ***virtual address***.

A ***virtual server*** is a traffic-management object on the BIG-IP system that is represented by an ***IP address*** and a ***service***.

A primary purpose of a virtual server is to ***load balance traffic across a pool of servers*** on an internal network. Virtual servers increase the availability of resources for processing client requests.

### Virtual addresses

A ***virtual address*** is the IP address with which you associate a virtual server. For example, if a virtual server’s IP address and service are `10.10.10.2:80`, then the IP address `10.10.10.2` is a virtual address.

You can create a many-to-one relationship between virtual servers and a virtual address. For example, you can create the three virtual servers `10.10.10.2:80`, `10.10.10.2:443`, and `10.10.10.2:161` for the same virtual address, `10.10.10.2`.